<Leader>m               Mark the word under the cursor, similar to the star command. The next free highlight group is used.  If already on a mark: Clear the mark, like <Leader>n. 

{Visual}<Leader>m       Mark or unmark the visual selection.  
[N]<Leader>m            With [N], mark the word under the cursor with the named highlight group [N]. When that group is not empty, the word is added as an alternative match, so you can highlight multiple words with the same color.  When the word is already contained in the list of alternatives, it is removed. 

<Leader>n               Clear the mark under the cursor. If not on a mark: Disable all marks, similar to :nohlsearch. 

[N]<Leader>n            Clear the marks represented by highlight group [N]. 

== MARK PERSISTENCE ==

The marks can be kept and restored across Vim sessions, using the viminfo file. For this to work, the "!" flag must be part of the 'viminfo' setting: set viminfo+=!  " Save and restore global variables. 

{{{
	:MarkLoad               Restore the marks from the previous Vim session. All current marks are discarded. 
	:MarkLoad {slot}        Restore the marks stored in the named {slot}. All current marks are discarded. 
	:MarkSave               Save the currently defined marks (or clear the persisted marks if no marks are currently defined) for use in a future Vim session. 
	:MarkSave {slot}        Save the currently defined marks in the named {slot}. 
}}}

If {slot} is all UPPERCASE, the marks are persisted and can be |:MarkLoad|ed in a future Vim session; 

otherwise, you can just recall within the current session. When no marks are currently defined, the {slot} is cleared. 

== MARK INFORMATION == 
	Both mark-highlighting and mark-searching commands print information about the mark and search pattern, e.g. 

	mark-1/\<pattern\> 
	
	This is especially useful when you want to add or subtract patterns to a mark highlight group via [N]. 
{{{	
	:Marks                  List all mark highlight groups and the search patterns defined for them. 
}}}
	The group that will be used for the next :Mark or <Leader>m command (with [N]) is shown with a ">".  The last mark used for a search (via <Leader>*) is shown with a "/". 
