%template site

<a href="../images/Character_Coder-1.jpg">ASCLL字符编码</a>

<!-- {{{ -->
== map <C-1>,<C-2>...<C-=> can't work except <C-6>, why? Vista+gVim V7.2 ==
<!-- {{{ -->
=== Question ===

<div style=text-indent:0em;padding-left:5em;width:75%>
Hi list, </br>
</br>
Does anyone know why the following mapping can't work, and how to make </br>
it enable? </br>
</br>
" Windows Vista + gVim V7.2 </br>
:map <C--> <C-W>w- </br>
:map <C-=> <C-W>w+ </br>
</br>
':map <C-->/<C-=>' and ':verbose map <C-->/<C--=>', it's OK.  i.e. </br>
it's in the map list and hasn't been modified by others map. </br>
</br>
------------------------------------------ </br>
i tried any <C+Numeric key>, in main keyboard not in keypad, none </br>
could work except <C-6>(interior map by gVim self). </br>
While mapping <A-1>, <A-2>....<A-=>, all of them can work. </br>
</br>
</br>
Regards, </br>
-William </br>
</br>
</div>
<!-- }}} -->

<!-- {{{ -->
=== Answer_1 ===
<div style=text-indent:0em;padding-left:5em;width:75%>
<a>Because, in ASCII, they are not defined.</a> </br>
</br>
What you get when you hit Ctrl and 6 together is probably not Ctrl-6 (which is not defined) but Ctrl-^ (which is defined as 0x1E). </br>
</br>
The only Ctrl+printable keys defined by ASCII (and therefore known by Vim) are the following: </br>
</br>
- Ctrl-? (control + Question-mark) is 0x7F (aka DEL) </br>
- If X is in the range 0x40 to 0x5F (including all uppercase letters and 6 non-alphabetic characters) then Ctrl-X = X - 0x40 (eks minus hex-40) </br>
- If x is a lowercase letter, then Ctrl-x is the same as Ctrl+ upcase(x) </br>
</br>
That's all. The digits are 0x2f to 0x39 so they aren't included in any of the above cases, and Ctrl+digit is not defined. </br>
</br>
OTOH, <a>if X is in the range 0x00 to 0x7F, Alt+x is x + 0x80</a>. This means that every 7-bit ASCII character has an Alt counterpart in the upper half of the Latin1 character set. However, it also means that if you use accented letters, you should avoid using Alt+something as the {lhs} of an Insert-mode mapping. For example, to Vim, é (small-e-acute) is the same as Alt-i (Alt with small-i), so if you map Alt-i to do something, Vim will also do it when you hit é (similarly, see above paragraphs, for Tab and Ctrl-I, Esc and Ctrl-[, Enter and Ctrl-M). </br>
</br>
Note that the Alt modifier is case-sensitive while the Ctrl modifier isn't. </br>
</br>
</br>
Best regards, </br>
Tony. </br>
-- </br>
For a man to truly understand rejection, he must first be ignored by a </br>
cat. </br>
</div>
<!-- }}} -->

<!-- {{{ -->
=== Question ===
<div style=text-indent:0em;padding-left:5em;width:75%>
Thanks, i seems to know what's happening. However, why vim(or Windows?) doesn't make a mapping as follow? 

* ASCII-----------------Latin1 
* Ctrl+0x20 -------> 0x80 
* Ctrl+0x21 -------> 0x81 
* ........... 
* Ctrl+0x3F -------> 0x9F 

And if so, both Ctrl+digit and Alt+digit can work. 

Is 0x80~0x9F occupied by Ctrl+Alt+'x'? 

Regards, 

-William 
</div>
<!-- }}} -->

<!-- {{{ -->
=== Answer_2 ===
<div style=text-indent:0em;padding-left:5em;width:75%>
I don't know what Window does -- some programs want to treat Ctrl-I as </br>
other than Tab, Ctrl-M as other than Enter, etc. -- but Vim simply </br>
follows what was set long ago by ASCII (at a time when 7 bits were </br>
thought to be enough for a character and anything happening outside the </br>
borders of the 50 states, and also anything in non-English languages </br>
including Spanish, Yiddish, Cajun and Cherokee, could just as well have </br>
been in outer space), and it leaves, among others, Ctrl+0x20 to </br>
Ctrl+0x3F "undefined". </br>
</br>
And yes, Ctrl+Alt+@ is 0x80, Ctrl+Alt+A is 0x81, etc. (in UTF-8 or </br>
Latin1, these 32 characters, 0x80 to 0x9F, are all rarely used </br>
non-printing control characters; in Latin9 aka ISO-8859-15 and in </br>
Windows-1252 some or all of these byte values were attributed to </br>
characters nonexistent in Latin1, and above U+00FF in Unicode, such as </br>
the Euro sign, the French oe and OE digraphs, etc.). </br>
</br>
</br>
*** </br>
*** REMINDER: bottom-posting is the custom in the Vim groups. </br>
*** In other groups, well, "in Rome, do as the Romans do". </br>
*** </br>
</br>
</br>
Best regards, </br>
Tony. </br>
-- </br>
"In any world menu, Canada must be considered the vichyssoise of </br>
nations -- it's cold, half-French, and difficult to stir." </br>
                -- Stuart Keate </br>
</div><!-- }}} -->
<!-- }}} -->
